JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
JARED KUSHNER, Senior
Presidential Adviser:
I didn't collude with
Russia, nor did I know
of anyone else in the
campaign who did so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President
Trump's son-in-law and senior
adviser, Jared Kushner, defends
contacts with Russian officials
as he meets with the Senate
Intelligence Committee.
Then, I sit down with Democratic
National Committee Chair Tom
Perez to talk the party's
new agenda, while our Politics
Monday team take on that,
health care and the president's
new communications director.
Plus: living in limbo --
on an isolated coast off
Bangladesh, hundreds of
thousands of Myanmar's
Rohingya people have relocated
to escape persecution, only
to face new challenges.
DILBAR, Refugee (through
translator): We came here,
left our homes, rice.
We came here to save our lives.
If we have no peace,
then it's better to die.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Denial and
defense, the president's
son-in-law offered both
today in the Russia
investigation.
He spoke privately for members
of the U.S. Senate staff and
briefly publicly for news
cameras.
Our coverage begins
with John Yang.
JOHN YANG: Outside the White
House West Wing, Jared Kushner
did something he rarely does:
speak to reporters.
JARED KUSHNER, Senior
Presidential Adviser:
Let me be very clear.
I did not collude with Russia,
nor do I know of anyone else
in the campaign who did so.
I had no improper contacts.
JOHN YANG: He dismissed the
idea that his father-in-law
benefited from Russian meddling
in the election.
JARED KUSHNER: Donald Trump
had a better message and ran a
smarter campaign and that is why
he won.
Suggesting otherwise ridicules
those who voted for him.
JOHN YANG: Kushner
took no questions from
reporters, but said he
had answered all questions
from Senate Intelligence
Committee investigators in a
two-hour closed-door session.
His 11-page prepared
remarks gave the first
public explanation of
four meetings he had
with Russians during the
campaign and transition.
He said he didn't know the
purpose of the June 9, 2016,
meeting Donald Trump Jr. set
up with Russian attorney Natalia
Veselnitskaya, campaign chairman
Paul Manafort and others
in hopes of getting
dirt on Hillary Clinton.
Kushner said he arrived late
and "quickly determined that
my time wasn't well-spent.
It was," he said, "a
waste of our time," a
judgment his brother-in-law
has also expressed.
DONALD TRUMP JR., Son of Donald
Trump: It was literally just
a wasted 20 minutes, which
was a shame.
JOHN YANG: Less than a month
after President Trump won the
election, on December 1, Kushner
and national security
adviser-designate Michael
Flynn met with Russian
ambassador, Sergey
Kislyak.
According to Kushner, the envoy
said he wanted to talk about
Syria and convey information
from his generals.
Kislyak asked if there
was a secure line in
the transition office.
Told that there wasn't, Kushner
asked if the Russians had an
existing communications channel
at his embassy we could use.
The ambassador said that
wouldn't be possible.
On December 13, Kushner met,
at Kislyak's insistence, with
Sergey Gorkov, the head of
a Russian bank that is
under U.S. sanctions.
He said Gorkov told him he
was friendly with President
Putin and expressed hopes for a
better relationship
in the future.
Kushner said he has not been
in contact with Gorkov since.
As for the matter of Kushner's
original security clearance
application not including any of
his foreign contacts, the
president's son-in-law
said it was an accident.
He said it was submitted
prematurely due to
a miscommunication
with an assistant.
It's been updated at
least three times.
On Sunday, the White House
appeared ready to accept a new
sanctions bill scheduled for
a House vote tomorrow.
It would target Russia and
limit Mr. Trump's ability
to lift the penalties.
SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS, White
House Press Secretary: We
support where the legislation
is now.
We will continue working with
the House and Senate to put
those tough sanctions in place.
JOHN YANG: But late today,
White House Press Secretary
Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the
president is still studying
the legislation, which was
introduced because of questions
raised by the Russia
investigation, which has
now entered a new phase.
Kushner will be back on Capitol
Hill tomorrow for a private
session with members of the
House Intelligence Committee.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm John Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House
said later that President
Trump was -- quote -- "very
proud" of his son-in-law's
actions today.
We will go deeper on all of this
right after the news summary.
In the day's other news:
President Trump directed
new criticism at his
own attorney over the
Russia probe.
In a tweet, he called Jeff
Sessions "our beleaguered
A.G." and asked why
he and others are not
investigating Hillary Clinton.
Last week, the president
openly chastised Sessions for
recusing himself in the Russia
matter.
A diplomatic standoff
between Israel and Jordan
ended this evening.
It had begun Sunday, when an
Israeli Embassy guard in Amman
killed two Jordanians after
one stabbed him.
The Jordanians said they wanted
to question the guard, but
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu insisted he has
diplomatic immunity and
must be returned home.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU,
Israeli Prime Minister
(through translator):
I assured him that we
will see to bringing
him back to Israel.
We are also holding contacts to
end the incident and to bring
our people back to Israel.
And we are doing this
determinedly and responsibly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, the
guard and other embassy
staffers returned to Israel.
The dispute added to tensions
over new security measures at
the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem.
They sparked protests
on Friday, and several
Palestinians were killed.
In Afghanistan, at least 24
people were killed today when a
suicide car bomber rammed a bus
carrying government employees.
The Taliban said it was behind
the attack targeting a Kabul
neighborhood that's home
to leading politicians.
At least 42 people were hurt.
Separately, in Lahore, Pakistan,
a suicide bomber killed at
least 25 people, many of
them police.
The Pakistani Taliban
claimed that attack.
Philippines President Rodrigo
Duterte insisted today he will
continue a drug crackdown that's
claimed thousands of lives.
In a state of the union address,
he called the victims beasts
and vultures and he vowed
he'd go to prison
first before giving in.
RODRIGO DUTERTE, Philippine
President: The fight will not
stop until those who deal in
it understand that they have
to cease, they have to stop,
because the alternative are
either jail or hell.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As Duterte
spoke, thousands of
left-wing protesters
marched in opposition.
He met with them later,
but warned he will order
police to shoot anyone
who causes disturbances.
In Poland, the country's
president broke with
his own political party
today, vetoing two
bills aimed at curbing the
independence of judges.
The legislation had triggered
mass demonstrations.
Diana Magnay of
Independent Television
News filed this report.
DIANA MAGNAY: For days
and long into each
night, they protested
in cities across Poland
against judicial reforms they
felt might snuff out what's
left of liberal democracy here.
It's not a phrase the ruling
Law and Justice Party had much
track with, certainly not party
chairman Jaroslaw Kaczynski.
But the man he cherry-picked
for president last year, Andrzej
Duda, just broke with party
ranks.
ANDRZEJ DUDA, President of
Poland (through translator):
Poland badly needs reform of
the judiciary and I fully
support this reform.
But I support a smart reform,
which would guarantee an
effective functioning of the
judiciary and improve the
sense of justice in Poland.
DIANA MAGNAY: Cue an emergency
meeting of the ruling party.
No comments from the press,
but expect the president, who
until now has signed pretty
much everything that's crossed
his desk, to put his stamp on
any new piece of legislation,
likely some kind of compromise,
on reforms his party says
they have a mandate for.
DOMINIK TARCZYNSKI, Member
of Polish Parliament: So
far, the judges in Poland
had no responsibility
at all.
We as members of Parliament
can be, I don't know, put on
trial or lose our mandate or
just people revolt
and decide our future.
So, we wanted to have very
equal rights for everyone, for
member of the Parliament, for
the judge, and from
the man on the street.
DIANA MAGNAY: Some on the street
today felt their president
hadn't gone far enough, blocking
two pieces of legislation,
but not a third, which grants
sweeping powers to the justice
minister, including the
right to appoint the
heads of lower courts.
This evening, another
demonstration outside
the presidential palace
by those whose notions
of law and justice are
entirely different from
Kaczynski and his ruling party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That report
from Diana Magnay of
Independent Television News.
The parents of a critically
ill baby in Britain
have dropped their legal
bid to keep him alive.
They'd been trying to move
11-month-old Charlie Gard to the
U.S. for experimental treatment,
but British doctors
argued it wouldn't work.
Today, the father, Chris Gard,
said they have made their
decision after new tests showed
the child's muscle damage
is now irreversible.
CHRIS GARD, Father: We will
have to live with the what-ifs
which will haunt us for the rest
of our lives.
Despite the way our
beautiful son has been
spoken about sometimes,
as if he is not worthy
of a chance of life, our son
is an absolute warrior, and
we could not be prouder of him
and we will miss him terribly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The case
has garnered international
attention, with both
President Trump and the
pope offering support
to the family.
Back in this country, President
Trump called for Senate
Republicans to begin debate on
a health care bill.
Party leaders say they will try
advancing a measure tomorrow,
but it's not clear which
one: a version that repeals
and replaces Obamacare
or a repeal-only bill.
The president said -- quote
-- "There's been enough talk.
Now is the time for action."
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial average lost
nearly 67 points to close at
21513.
The Nasdaq rose 23 points,
and the S&P 500 slipped two.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Jared Kushner's statement put
in context; what led to the
deaths of 10 migrants in
San Antonio; a controversial
plan to relocate ones
of the world's most
persecuted minorities;
and much more.
At the start of this week,
the latest focus of the Russia
investigations on Jared Kushner
has exposed new details of
the president son-in-law's
dealings with Moscow.
We break down what we know and
the key questions that remain
with special correspondent Nick
Schifrin.
So, Nick, you have spent the
day talking to a lot of people.
What comes out of this?
What new do we learn about
Jared Kushner and his
dealings with the Russians?
NICK SCHIFRIN: I think the new
narrative is that this is the
senior adviser to a president
who has questioned whether there
was any influence by Russia last
year detailing Russia influence
on him and perhaps
on Trump policy.
And nobody in this
administration has
really done that before.
And you have got three
examples of that laid out.
One is Ambassador Kislyak, the
former Russian ambassador to
the United States, asking for
a direct line between the
Trump transition team and
Russian generals on Syria.
This is very unusual.
Kislyak could have asked the
Obama administration, could have
used the U.S. government to do
so, and he would be
expected to do so.
And he didn't do that.
He tried to circumvent the
Obama administration and
use Kushner to do that.
Secondly, Sergey Gorkov,
the banker that John
reported on, introduced
to Kushner as a personal
friend of Vladimir Putin, shows
up with two gifts, art and dirt.
And many of the people I
spoke to today, that metaphor
of dirt is not lost on them.
The idea, according to
the intelligence officials
I spoke to and former
diplomats, is to prove
that Russia has a
connection to Kushner.
This is dirt from Kushner's
grandparents' home in Belarus
and also perhaps to convince
Kushner that Russia does
its homework on Kushner.
And this is someone who is kind
of part of the brotherhood,
if you will, of businessmen
with former intelligence ties,
who keep those intelligence
ties, and could therefore really
represent the Russian government
to Kushner, and reach out
to someone very close to the
Trump campaign or President
Trump himself on behalf of
the Russian government, and,
again, using Kushner to do that.
And, thirdly, of course, the
meeting we have been talking
about for a few weeks now with
Natalia Veselnitskaya, this
lawyer who reached out to
Donald Trump Jr. and to Kushner.
So, we have three examples
of Russia trying to literally
get into the Trump family.
And those are the details
that we saw today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, this on
top of what we had learned
before this, is all related to
what's happening in Congress,
the Senate, even Republicans
coming together with Democrats
to impose these new
sanctions on Russia.
NICK SCHIFRIN: It's very
clear that Republicans are
helping lead this effort,
certainly bipartisan
effort, but certainly
Republicans, fearing
the president's rhetoric
on Russia, responding
to the president's rhetoric
on Russia, frankly handcuffing
the president on his ability to
lift sanctions on Russia that
were imposed because of Ukraine,
Eastern Ukraine and Crimea,
as well as the 2016 elections.
Now, Republicans wouldn't use
that word handcuff, but that
is really what these have done.
It's the first time U.S.
has penalized anyone
the U.S. believes was
part of the campaign
last year to influence
the elections directly.
It's not designed to
hit ordinary Russians.
It's designed to send a message
to Russia that U.S. intelligence
knows who's doing these
things.
And it will make it harder for
banks and for other companies
-- or countries, rather, to
do business with Russia
perhaps in the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Again, Nick, you
talked to a lot of people today.
Any sense that, as Jared
Kushner says, he's a babe in the
woods, he doesn't know American
politics, he doesn't know
diplomacy, that he really was
an unwitting figure in all this,
as he says he was?
NICK SCHIFRIN: Some of this
is described to me as normal,
whether it's Sergey Kislyak's
reaching out to someone who
was a neophyte, reaching out
to a campaign or a transition
team that was brand-new
to Washington.
And some people say, look,
this is what any diplomat, any
country would do with a new
administration.
But what is not normal is that
the president has questioned
his intelligence community's
findings about what
Russia has done.
What is not normal is not to
report some of these meetings
that were set up with Russians,
as Kushner admitted that
he failed to do initially.
And what's not normal is
not to report Ambassador
Kislyak's attempt to
circumvent the U.S. government
and administration to try and
get to the Trump campaign.
So that's why there is so
much focus on this meeting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally,
just a couple seconds,
Russian reactions to all this?
NICK SCHIFRIN: You know,
what's interesting, their
focus is on sanctions.
They haven't replied to any
request for comment on Kushner.
They say that the sanctions
are -- quote -- "extremely
negative," if the
sanctions go forward from
Congress.
And that is their focus.
They don't want these
sanctions to go forward.
And Trump himself has questioned
whether these sanctions
should go forward in the past.
And if they do, that may be one
of the legacies of 2016, turning
Congress against Russia to
this point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nick Schifrin
doing a lot of reporting
on this, we thank you.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now the latest on
a human smuggling case in Texas
that has left at least 10 people
dead after they were packed into
a sweltering tractor-trailer.
And again to John Yang.
JOHN YANG: The truck
driver, James Bradley,
was charged in federal
court today with knowingly
transporting people who are in
the country illegally for money.
According to the criminal
complaint, a Wal-Mart
employee called police
early Sunday to report
the suspicious tractor-trailer
in the parking lot after
someone asked for water.
Officers found dozens
of people packed into
the sweltering trailer.
In addition to the
dead, nearly 20 others
are still hospitalized.
Bradley told police he was
driving the tractor-trailer
from Iowa to a new owner
in Brownsville, Texas,
and wasn't aware of what or who
he was hauling until he stopped
at the Wal-Mart for a bathroom
break.
Survivors said there was no
air conditioning and described
taking turns to breath through
a hole in the trailer.
Jason Buch is covering the
story and reports on border and
immigration issues for The San
Antonio Express-News.
Jason, thanks for joining us.
First, bring us up to date.
What's the latest today and
what did we learn from the truck
driver's appearance in court?
JASON BUCH, The San Antonio
Express-News: Well, there
wasn't a whole lot said in court
this morning.
He's going to be held until
a bond hearing on Thursday.
But the U.S. Attorney's Office
signed off on a complaint
by immigration agents that
detailed what they learned in
their interviews with the driver
and with the immigrants, and,
as you described, this journey
up from the border in an
overheated container with a very
limited ability to
get air from one hole.
JOHN YANG: And talk about
the charges he's facing.
They're federal charges.
What's the maximum penalty?
JASON BUCH: So, most smuggling
charges come with a maximum
penalty of 10 years in prison.
But because people died
in this case, he actually
faces up to life in prison
or the death penalty.
We had another incident here
about 15 years ago in which
several people died, 19 people
died after being
abandoned in a trailer.
The death penalty was
overturned in that case, and
that driver got 34 years.
So, it would be difficult for
the U.S. Attorney's Office to
prove up a capital case here.
JOHN YANG: How widespread are
these smuggling operations?
What can you tell us about them?
JASON BUCH: I mean, people
come across the border
in South Texas every day.
The Border Patrol in Laredo,
which is where these folks
crossed, have reported in the
last couple months an uptick in
people using tractor-trailers
to try to get through the
Border Patrol checkpoint and
reach the cities to the north.
It's been a long time
since we have had a
fatal incident like this
involving a tractor-trailer,
but certainly there have been
a number of incidents reported
by Border Patrol recently
of dozens of people packed
into tractor-trailers.
JOHN YANG: And tell us
how these operations work.
I mean, these people, some
of the survivors said they
crossed the river actually on a
raft and then they were
being taken farther
north in this truck?
How do they work in general?
JASON BUCH: Right.
So, what they described was
being -- paying a smuggler in
Mexico to bring them across
the border.
They were then brought
to most likely stash
houses on the U.S. side.
And then, when it was time to
load the truck, it appears that
people who were being smuggled
by different groups were
all brought to where
this trailer was parked,
loaded into the trailer,
and then driven to Laredo.
And, in fact, they were
given -- each group
was given a different
color tape to determine
who they should go with when
they arrived in San Antonio.
And some of the immigrants
described to investigators
that there were black
SUVs waiting for them
in the Wal-Mart parking
lot when they pulled up.
JOHN YANG: And where they
would be taken after that?
Where would these
SUVs take them?
JASON BUCH: Some people
said that they were
staying in San Antonio.
Others -- another person
interviewed by the
immigration agents said
that they were headed
for Minnesota.
Usually, San Antonio is a
pass-through because we're on
a major highway to the border.
People are usually going
on to major metropolitan
areas or regions of
the country that employ
a lot of immigrant laborers,
so, areas with large agriculture
industries or construction
booms.
JOHN YANG: And obviously,
business -- I'm sorry -- border
security, immigration issues
are a big topic, with
President Trump talking
about the border wall.
Has this incident
gotten swept up in the
politics of this issue?
JASON BUCH: Absolutely.
Our lieutenant governor was
on Facebook yesterday blaming
this on sanctuary cities.
Our legislature recently passed
a bill that would provide
criminal penalties and fines
for officials who ran what
they call sanctuary cities.
So, the lieutenant governor was
placing blame for this incident
on cities and counties that
don't cooperate with federal
immigration officials.
JOHN YANG: Well, it's a
horrible, horrible incident,
reminds us of the people behind
these issues.
Jason Buch, thanks so
much for joining us.
JASON BUCH: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
I sit down with Tom Perez, the
chair of the Democratic National
Committee; our Politics
Monday duo examines the
Democrats and the latest
White House controversies;
and a new film documents
the lives of Syrian
activists battling ISIS.
But, first, we turn
to Bangladesh and the
plight of the Rohingya.
They are an ethnic minority
group seeking refuge there,
many having been forced from
their homes in
neighboring Myanmar.
But as special correspondent
Tania Rashid found,
they are hardly more
welcome in Bangladesh.
By the tens of thousands, they
are stuck in a deadly limbo.
And a warning: Parts of this
story may disturb some viewers.
TANIA RASHID: The island is
isolated, covered in bushes,
and underwater half of the year.
It's called Thenga Chor, and it
lies on the coast of Bangladesh.
It's a hard and long day's boat
ride from the nearest port.
This rough spot might be the
new home for the Rohingya,
a group of more than 300,000
people the U.N. calls
the most persecuted
minority in the world.
But on a camp on the mainland,
Hafez, a Rohingya activist,
says that is no place they want
to go.
HAFEZ, Activist (through
translator): If we go to
Thenga Chor, we will get sick.
We can die.
We are used to being here,
and we feel safe here.
TANIA RASHID: It's
only a relative safety.
Close to half-a-million have
fled murder and persecution
by the army of Myanmar to seek
refuge in camps in
Southern Bangladesh.
The Muslim Rohingya have
lived in mainly Buddhist
Myanmar for centuries,
but are viewed as illegal
ethnic Bangladeshis by
the Myanmar government.
The de facto leader of Myanmar,
Nobel peace laureate Aung San
Suu Kyi, has denied a U.N.
charge of ethnic cleansing
of the Rohingya'.
But in the last eight months,
the numbers of Rohingya fleeing
for their lives have surged
to more than 70,000.
But now their lives are more
precarious than ever before.
Monsoon season and a
punishing cyclone damaged
many Rohingya settlements.
So, the Bangladeshi government
plans to resolve the Rohingya's
continued displacement by moving
60,000 of the refugees
to this remote island.
Aid agencies like the UNHCR
and Human Rights Watch have
expressed alarm over the planned
relocation.
Our journey to the
island was difficult.
We began a week
before the cyclone.
We traveled first by ferry,
then by a private boat, where a
local fishermen agreed to take
us to the island.
It was a dangerous journey.
Pirates are known to
control these seas and
take hostages for ransom.
But the island is
not easy to access.
The tides are too high on
the bigger ship, so we had to
get a smaller boat to take us
to the island.
We just made it on the island.
We managed to find a muddy
bog to land near, and get
us across to the island.
The government has already
moved forward with the plan of
making the island more habitable
by planting trees.
But this local official
doesn't want the Rohingyas
moving into his district.
He thinks it will create more
problems for his community.
MINAZUR RAHMAN, Local
Official (through
translator): In the past,
the Rohingya were related to
the drug problem.
They are linked to drugs,
linked to smuggling.
Most of the people here, their
main livelihood is fishing.
The bad character and influence
of the Rohingya people will
impact the locals here.
TANIA RASHID: But the
Bangladeshi government
believe the Rohingyas
cross the border at
will, with the help of smugglers
and corrupt border guards.
The government argues the
relocation will guarantee their
isolation from the rest of
the population.
But the island is formed by
river sediment, making it
unstable, and it could be eroded
in five years' time.
Dr. Ainun Nishat is a
leading expert on climate
change in Bangladesh.
DR.
AINUN NISHAT, Climate Change
Expert: The main history of
the coastal belt of Bangladesh
is highly vulnerable to storm
surges and cyclonic weather.
Due to impact of climate change,
we believe that the frequency
of climate change may not
be increasing, but intensity
of the storm surges are
definitely going to increase.
So, they should be accommodated
in good concrete structure,
where at the time of emergency
people should we -- can
be moved to a height
of 20 feet and above.
TANIA RASHID: Today, about
one million Rohingyas
live in apartheid-like
conditions in internment
camps in Rakhine State of
Myanmar, separated from
the Buddhist majority.
They have no citizenship, and
need permission to marry or
to travel outside of their own
villages.
On October 9 of last year,
Rohingya militants killed
nine Myanmar police officers.
The Myanmar military
then led a wide and
brutal counterinsurgency
campaign in retaliation,
where they killed more
than 1,000 Rohingyas,
torched homes and mosques.
The Myanmar government calls
these accusations exaggerations
and denies charges of ethnic
cleansing.
Dil Nawaz is one of
70,000 Rohingya's who
fled to Bangladesh.
She was gang-raped by soldiers,
and witnessed her husband's
murder in front of her eyes.
I'm looking at a photo of
her husband who was hacked to
death about five months ago,
and this is a photograph
she took shortly after
she was murdered.
DIL NAWAZ, Refugee (through
translator): They used a machete
on my husband in front of me
on the road.
I saw it with my own eyes.
They chopped him into pieces
in front of me in a rice field.
Then, the army came and took
all the women out to the rice
fields and took several women.
Five men took turns raping them.
They took people's gold
jewelry, rings and earrings.
They killed some children.
Then they burned all the houses
down, followed by the mosque.
Then the military went
back to a Buddhist area.
This is why we
fled to Bangladesh.
TANIA RASHID: Activist
Hafez says they have
found refuge here.
HAFEZ (through translator):
Bangladesh is small, and
overpopulated, but they gave us
a place to stand.
This is a big thing.
TANIA RASHID: But like many
other Rohingya, he wants
a sense of permanence.
HAFEZ (through translator):
Instead of sending us to Thenga
Chor, if the Myanmar government
could, we request that
they grant us citizenship.
TANIA RASHID: Forty-five-year
old Dilbar hopes for a
last-ditch political solution.
DILBAR, Refugee (through
translator): If the
Bangladesh government and
the Myanmar government
negotiate a deal and send us
back, then we will be happy.
If this doesn't happen,
then please bomb us.
We came here, left
our homes, rice.
We came here to save our lives.
If we have no peace,
then it's better to die.
Our children died there.
We sacrificed everything
and came here for peace.
If you take us to the
island, it will be like
killing us, slaughtering us.
We are like Anthony Scaramucci.
We are nothing.
It won't take much to kill us.
Just bomb us.
Nobody will make a case
against you, because we have
no ground under our feet.
TANIA RASHID: Their hope, to
find that safe ground one day.
But, for now, they remain
in limbo, not of this land
and not pushed from it.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Tania Rashid on Thenga
Chor Island, Bangladesh.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our series
of conversations focusing on the
road ahead for the Democratic
Party.
Today, Senate and House
Democratic leaders
left Washington for a
stop in Berryville in
Northwest Virginia, estimated
population around 4,300.
It was to roll out a new,
more populist message
focusing on economic issues.
They said it's what the party
needs to win back voters.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: When you lose elections,
as we did in 2014 and
2016, you don't flinch.
You don't blink.
You look in the mirror and
ask, what did we do wrong?
The number one thing we did
wrong is not present a strong,
bold economic agenda to working
Americans, so that their
hope for the future
might return again.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), House
Minority Leader: That is why,
today, Democrats are unveiling
an aggressive and ambitious
economic agenda, and a bold new
promise to America's working
families.
From the heartland -- these
members are from the heartland,
but to the suburbs, to the
cities, Democrats are offering
a better deal, better jobs,
better wages, a better future.
REP.
BEN RAY LUJAN (D), New
Mexico: Voters, constituents
want us to focus on them.
They want us to
understand where they are.
And they want us to understand
that their wages are not
keeping up with their cost of
living.
And so the more people that are
able to have that conversation
with the American people,
we will be in a
stronger place in 2018.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Joining me now
to discuss the new agenda, and
the way forward for the party,
is the chairman of the
Democratic National
Committee, Tom Perez.
Welcome to the "NewsHour."
So, how did the Democratic Party
get to the point where you have
to be reintroducing yourselves
to the American people, telling
them what you stand for?
THOMAS PEREZ, Chairman,
Democratic National
Committee: Well, we have
heard across America
from people that they don't
know what we stand for.
And I have been traveling
to countries listening.
And so what Leader Pelosi,
Senator Schumer and others
today have been doing is telling
people not only what
we're fighting for, but
who we're fighting for.
We're fighting for a
better future for everyone.
We're fighting to address
the most important
issue of our time, which
is income inequality.
We're fighting and showing
people that we believe that
everyone has an opportunity,
or should have an opportunity,
to punch their ticket to the
middle class, that health care
is a right for all, not
a privilege for a few.
And, again, we're not
only talking about what
we're fighting for,
but who we're fighting
for.
We're fighting for
the many, not the few.
We're fighting for an economy
that works for everyone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is this
different, Tom Perez, from the
Democrats' message before now?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, I think
-- I worked for Ted Kennedy.
And Ted Kennedy always fought
for he called the common
man and the common woman.
And I think the Democratic
Party, we have always been
fighting for ordinary Americans,
whether it was fighting for
the Social Security Act in the
1930s, fighting for Medicare and
Medicaid.
And we will be celebrating
the anniversary of Medicaid
and Medicare in a few days.
Fighting for the
Affordable Care Act.
Fighting for good jobs.
And what we need to do is
underscore what we have been
doing and tell people how we're
going to continue that fight,
because Donald Trump attempted
to hijack that message.
And we need to tell people
exactly who's fighting for them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, is part
of the reason you need to do
this that the party has been
spending -- and Democrats
-- have been spending so
much time talking about
Donald Trump, criticizing
Donald Trump?
Just today, I got another press
release from the Democratic
National Committee about Jared
Kushner's meeting with Senate
investigators on Russia.
Have you have been -- by you, I
mean Democrats - - been spending
too much time criticizing
Donald Trump, in other words,
talking about what you're
against, rather than what you're
for?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, when we
have a vote on the Affordable
Care Act repeal tomorrow, it's
important for us to talk about
the fact that that's not a
health care bill, it's a massive
tax cut for wealthy people.
But your point is absolutely
well taken, which is we can't
simply be against Donald Trump.
We have to be for the values
that Senator Schumer, Leader
Pelosi and all of us have
been talking about.
And that's what I do
day in and day out.
Democrats believe that no
one who works a full-time job
should have to live in poverty.
Democrats believe that, again,
health care is a right for
all and not a privilege for
a few, that the secretary
of education ought to
believe in public education.
And when I was labor secretary,
I was fighting for higher
wages, overtime pay for people.
I was fighting for retirement
security for folks.
We were fighting to make
sure that people had
the skills to compete.
And the Republicans were
always fighting against that.
They didn't want to raise
the overtime threshold.
They fought our efforts at
making sure that anyone who had
a 401(k) or an IRA could get
the advice they need.
And what we have to do a better
job of as Democrats is tell
folks exactly what we have
been fighting for and what they
have been fighting against.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How does this
fit into the debate that I
have been hearing out there?
On the one hand, you hear
I guess you would call them
centrist Democrats saying, well,
the party didn't pay enough
attention to the Middle America,
working-class Americans, it
spent too much time on what
they call identity politics.
And then, on the other hand, you
have got the more progressive
wing of the party saying,
no, no, the party forgot about
its base, it about minorities,
about black voters, about
Hispanic voters.
And you're hearing two
different critiques.
How does what you're saying
the party is arguing now, how
does it fit into that argument?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, I think it's
a false choice to suggest that
you either do one or the other.
And as Dr. King said, the best
civil right is a good job.
What good is a seat at
the counter if you can't
afford to buy a hamburger?
And economic opportunity
for everyone is what we
have been talking about.
And what we have to do a
better job of as Democrats is
talk about that in every zip
code.
A big part of what we're doing
with the Democratic Party is
we're building a 12-month-a-year
organizing presence
in every zip code.
We have to talk to folks in
rural America, urban America,
suburban America, because the
opioid epidemic is touching
all of those communities.
And we need to tell them that
we are the party that's trying
to make sure that we retain
access to health care.
We're the party that's making
sure that you have the skills
to compete, not only for today's
jobs, but for the dynamic
economy and the jobs that
will be coming tomorrow.
That's what Democrats have
been fighting for, and I think
that message resonates in every
zip code across the country.
Everyone wants good
public education.
Doesn't matter where you live.
And that's what
we're fighting for.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Former President
Obama himself said that he was
partly to blame for the fact
that the party didn't so as much
as it should have done, could
have been doing at the state
level, at the local level.
Is the party now going
to be working actively to
recruit and be more present
in local communities,
in cities?
THOMAS PEREZ: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
We have changed our
mission statement.
Our mission is no longer
simply to elect the president
of the United States.
Our mission is to elect
Democrats up and down the
ticket, from the school
board to the Senate.
And our mission is to be
there in every zip code.
That's why we helped two
candidates who were running in
Oklahoma a couple weeks ago who
won special elections
in districts that
Donald Trump had won.
We have a
57-state-and-territory strategy.
And we have to
organize everywhere.
And we to have to be a
12-month-a-year party.
You can't just show up
every fourth October and
call that organizing.
We have to organize everywhere.
And that's everywhere
every year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to
come back to the question we
were discussing a minute ago.
And that is, how much of
what people are hearing
from Democrats now
is anti-Donald Trump?
How do you both do this,
the positive things
you're talking about, and
remain this relentless
anti-Trump machine that many
people think the Democrats are?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well,
we can't match Trump
tweet for tweet, because
distracting Donald frequently
out there.
I'm sure, at the G20,
everyone was talking about
John Podesta's tweets.
And so when you -- and then
you have this misnamed voter
integrity commission, which
is a voter suppression
commission.
And we can't allow all of
the relentless conflict
and chaos that emanates
from this administration
to take our eye off the ball.
That's what today was
about with Leader Pelosi
and Senator Schumer.
It was about telling the
American people we are the party
that's fighting for a better
future for folks, for everyone.
We're the party that's going
to make sure that you get that
good job that pays a decent
wage that allows
you to have dignity.
And we have to do that.
And that's exactly what I do
everywhere I go, Judy, because
it is so important to tell
people what we stand for
and who we stand with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tom Perez, the
chairman of the Democratic
Party, thank you very much.
THOMAS PEREZ: Pleasure
to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As I was
starting to say, one
clear challenge facing
Democrats and Republicans,
staying on message, when
the president can so quickly
stir up a new controversy.
So, will a shakeup in the
White House communications
team change all that?
Our Politics Monday duo is here
to weigh in, Amy Walter of The
Cook Political Report, Tamara
Keith of NPR.
But because you both were
sitting here as I was just
talking to Tom Perez, Tam, let's
start by talking about that.
What do you make of the
Democrats' effort now?
You hear him saying, we're
trying to get back to business
here, to go to appeal to voters
where they are.
TAMARA KEITH, National
Public Radio: Yes.
There was a struggle when I
covered the Clinton campaign
that they had, which he was sort
of getting at a little bit,
which is the thing where they
would want to talk about issues,
they would want to talk about
policy, they would want to
have an affirmative message,
and then Donald Trump
would do something and
they would just slip back
into being the opposition
to the other person who
is running for president.
And Democrats, I think,
struggle with that now in, you
know, are they the resistance
or are they for something?
And today was an effort to sort
of begin talking about what
they are for, at the same time
they're also talking about
what they're against still.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What
they're against.
Amy, can they do this?
AMY WALTER, The Cook
Political Report: Yes, I
think that's very doable.
The biggest challenge
for Democrats -- I think
we discussed this the
last time -- is that
they're the out party, so
they don't set the agenda.
The Republicans set the agenda.
They have to respond to
an agenda that's being set
by the Republican Party.
The other question is not just
so much about the message.
They can put together a
big messaging strategy,
but the messenger matters.
And in 2016, it was pretty
clear that the messenger that
Democrats had wasn't seen as
believable on a lot
of these issues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hillary Clinton.
AMY WALTER: The Hillary Clinton
campaign had - - how many
reams of policy papers did you
go through, Tam, about
all of these issues?
TAMARA KEITH: I think there were
like 10,000 pages of policy...
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: It's not that she
didn't and the campaign didn't
have a plan on the economy.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: I think it
was a million words.
But not like they didn't
have a plan for the economy.
It's that the messenger wasn't
seen as an effective messenger
or believable messenger.
So, the challenge, I think,
for Democrats right now going
into the midterm election
is finding candidates who
fit the districts, who have a
message that fits their specific
area, and that they're
believable, that
they're authentic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, they say
they are -- they are saying
they recruiting more people to
run, at least at the
congressional level.
AMY WALTER: And they are.
They are.
At the congressional level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you just
heard Tom Perez talking about
the state and local races, too.
AMY WALTER: It's always
the challenge and
the good and the bad.
You have tons of candidates
now on the Democratic
side either running or
talking about running.
That means big primaries and
that means you don't know who's
going to come out of a primary,
potentially the candidate
who doesn't fit as the right
messenger for that district.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meaning?
AMY WALTER: Meaning that you
get somebody in a district
that fits that district really
well, but loses in a 10- or
eight-way primary to a different
kind of Democratic candidate.
And there is not much that
the party can do about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But they're
going to try, aren't they, Tam?
Because, right now, Tom Perez
cited this poll that shows most
people think all the Democrats
stand for or mostly what
they stand for is being
against Donald Trump.
TAMARA KEITH: And they have
been pretty loudly against
Donald Trump, but you know what?
It's a long way out from
that midterm election.
And there's a lot of time
to actually hear a message.
We don't even know who the
candidates are at this point,
and the candidates do matter,
as Amy says.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
speaking of Donald Trump,
Amy Walter, he chose
a new communications
director late last
week, as press secretary
and communications
director Sean Spicer has
now left the White House.
Anthony Scaramucci out on
all the weekend talk shows,
saying he loves this president,
and that they're going to have
a new approach, and they're
going to be positive and they're
going to do well.
AMY WALTER: The new approach
is a lot like the old approach,
which is, let Donald Trump
be Donald Trump.
You're not going
to manage Trump.
I'm not going to micromanage
his Twitter account.
What works best is when Donald
Trump works in the mode that
he likes to operate in, as
he did in the 2016 campaign.
The challenge, of course, with
any communications shakeup at
the White House is that we know
that there is one communications
director at the White House,
and his name is Donald
J. Trump.
It doesn't matter who else gets
a title over at the White House.
So, if you think what's been
working right now at the
White House has been effective
or what they're doing at the
White House has been effective,
then you're going to keep
- - you're going
to say that's OK.
But the fact is, their
legislative agenda is stalled.
That hasn't been working.
Letting Donald Trump be
Donald Trump hasn't helped
with his approval ratings.
They're stuck now
somewhere at 40 percent.
As we just discussed, it's
not helping in terms of
the 2018 midterm elections.
Democrats are energized,
Republicans not as energized.
The strategy is basically to
keep doing things the way that
we have been doing them, but,
right now, six months
in, it hasn't been
particularly effective.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How does this
look to somebody who covers the
White House all the time, Tam?
TAMARA KEITH: It looks like
there's a new person who, as
you said, he talks about loving
Donald Trump, about, you know
-- he definitely will be someone
who is a salesman for the
president's message.
But if you look at the Sunday
show appearances, you had Sarah
Huckabee Sanders, who is the
new press secretary,
saying one thing.
You had Scaramucci
saying another thing.
And then you had the president
of the United States tweeting
something somewhere in between.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're still
trying to figure this out.
One of the things going
on in the tweeting,
Amy, is the president
continuing to criticize
or to say to Republicans,
you have got to come on
board with health care.
He's been tweeting about
it just a few minutes ago.
AMY WALTER: He's been
tweeting about it.
And then, of course, he stood
in the White House today and
basically put an ultimatum
in front of his party
that said, you are either
with me or you're not.
And the marker has
been put right there.
And so the choice for
Republicans tomorrow
is, are they going to
defy their president,
after saying -- after
he told them this will
be in defiance of me?
JUDY WOODRUFF: He said there
are going to be consequences
if we don't -- if you don't
support this.
TAMARA KEITH: Meanwhile, he
was talking about members of
his own party as they, as if it
was not -- as if they weren't
part of the same team.
And he was highly critical of
senators, saying, if you don't
do this, then you're breaking
a promise and there
are consequences.
And he made a tiny little
aside sort of indicating
that he wanted voters
to call their senators
or get in touch or make
it painful for their
senators, which is a turn.
It's him, the president,
publicly advocating for
a piece of legislation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just very
quickly, he's also putting
pressure on his own attorney
general, Amy, in just
a few seconds, saying
our beleaguered A.G.
If you're Jeff Sessions, what
are you thinking right now?
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: Right.
As with many people in the Trump
administration, if you work
for him, you have to know that
your job is always precarious.
There is no ultimate
loyalty if you work there.
And it's never clear whether
you're safe or not safe with
this president in your job at
the White House.
TAMARA KEITH: And Sessions
was at lunch at the
White House today and
didn't see the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hmm.
Well, we will leave it
at that, Politics Monday.
Tamara Keith, Amy
Walter, thank you both.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The battle to
dislodge ISIS from its makeshift
capital, Raqqa, in Syria
is intensifying, as U.S.-backed
militia press the offensive.
But, for years, a group of
citizen journalists have
documented life inside the city.
Their work started when the
uprising began in 2011 against
Syria's president, Bashar
al-Assad.
And it continues today
under even more deadly and
dangerous circumstances.
Jeffrey Brown has their story.
JEFFREY BROWN: They call
themselves Raqqa is Being
Slaughtered Silently.
And last year, the Committee to
Protect Journalists awarded the
group its International Press
Freedom Award.
Their story is now
told in a documentary
titled "City of Ghosts."
And joining me is the film's
director, Matthew Heineman,
and Abdul-Aziz al-Hamza, one of
the group's members.
Welcome to both of you.
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA,
Raqqa is Being Slaughtered
Silently: Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: Aziz, I want
to -- you and your friends and
colleagues are not fighters.
You were not journalists
before all of this started.
In your own words, what are you?
How do you describe yourselves?
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA: Before the
Syrian revolution, before all
what happened in Syria, I was a
normal teenager who was
studying biochemistry.
So I had nothing to
do with politics.
Even my family had like
no political background.
So I was as any college
student anywhere.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then, when
this started, you and your
friends felt you had to document
it.
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA: The way
how the Syrian regime and ISIS
prevented the international
media organizations to come and
cover what's going on, it was
like kind of a duty to cover
the atrocities of both of them.
So we decided first with
our mobile phones to
film the demonstrations.
At our own, we developed
our skills to document
what the human rights
violations against the
people.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Matthew,
many stories are told about
Syria, why was this the one you
wanted to tell?
MATTHEW HEINEMAN, Director,
"City of Ghosts": You know, I
was really fascinated by this
war of ideas, this war of
propaganda, this information
war between ISIS on one hand and
RBSS on the other.
ISIS uses these slick,
almost Hollywood-style
videos to disseminate
fear across the world
and to attract followers
and proclaim a safe haven,
a paradise for Muslims.
RBSS and the work of
Aziz and his colleagues
totally counter that and
show the extraordinarily
awful human rights violations
that they're committing
almost on a daily basis.
And, you know, that's what
initially drew me to the film,
but the film became much more
than that to me.
It became a -- ultimately, it
became a story of them fleeing,
being forced to flee from
Syria, to Turkey,
and Turkey to Europe.
It became an immigrant story.
It became a story of rising
nationalism in Europe.
It became a story about trauma
and the cumulative effects of
trauma, so it became much more
than that.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, let's
take a look at a clip that
shows a little bit of the work
of your group.
MAN: We are made up
to have two groups.
The internal group is in
Raqqa and is made up of
around 17 correspondents.
The internal group's mission
is to film, photograph
and deliver urgent news.
The
primary mission of the external
term group is to communicate
with the group inside.
MAN (through translator):
Rashidi, go to the door.
A girl is going to
bring you stuff.
She is wearing a
deep red head scarf.
MAN: The internal group then
sends us the information.
MAN (through translator):
There's a big airstrike
in the north from our
correspondent Iyan Issa
(ph).
MAN: We, the external group,
then distribute it to the world.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Aziz, the
film mostly, necessarily,
spends its time with you and
your colleagues who
are outside Raqqa.
But those who are inside,
who we just saw, how are
they able to do their work?
And what kind of
dangers do they face?
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA: So, they
are like -- in every second
and every moment they are like
in a dangerous and
a risky situation.
So, they could be
killed by ISIS, the
airstrikes, the shelling.
But they are risking their
lives daily to show the
reality of what's going on.
JEFFREY BROWN: Matthew, you and
I talked about your last film,
which was really around the
border area in the U.S., and
the way you told that story,
sort of embedding yourself into
the violence.
This is a little different.
Tell me how you made this film.
MATTHEW HEINEMAN: Yes,
so this was a different
experience for me.
I was forced to -- I
wasn't able to go to Raqqa.
I would be killed instantly.
And so I started filming them
in Turkey after they were forced
to flee, after some of the
members of their
group were killed.
And the sort of through-line
of the film is basically me
with them as they are escaping
from safe house to safe house,
ultimately landing in Europe.
You know, I think these issues
of ISIS and Syria are so
often relegated to headlines
and to stats, and I
really wanted to put a
human face to this topic.
JEFFREY BROWN: What
is the situation now?
Of course, the battle for Raqqa
is going on, and we read about
airstrikes, civilians being
hurt.
What's the situation
for your colleagues?
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA: For the
people of Raqqa, so they are
suffering not only by ISIS, by
the airstrike of the
international coalition.
At the same time, the
Russians are still bombing
the city, the Syrian regime.
So, everyone is like
bombing the city.
The local are besieged
between all these sides.
The condition is the city,
the services are like so bad.
Everything is getting
expensive day after day.
People are missing
like many things for
their necessary lives.
And many people were kind of
trying to flee the city, but
the land mines -- so it's a
horrible situation.
JEFFREY BROWN: With the outcome
in Raqqa still so uncertain,
do you know whether you will
be able to return or to
what kind of city you
will be able to return to?
ABDUL-AZIZ AL-HAMZA: I hope
that one day, I will be able
to return to Raqqa, to my city.
So that's the reason
why I started this group
with my colleagues, so
to fight for our city,
to be able one day to go
back and lead the rest of
our lives in Raqqa and Syria.
So, I don't want to be
like a fugitive anymore.
JEFFREY BROWN: Matthew,
what do you hope people take
from this, from your film?
MATTHEW HEINEMAN: Bombs
are not going to fix ISIS.
This ground war that
we're fighting is not
going to end ISIS.
ISIS is an idea.
And we have to fight
this idea with the same
tools that they're using.
And so I think, you know, we,
as a global community, we,
as the United States, we as
journalists, have to figure out
ways to combat ISIS' ideology,
ISIS' extremist ideology,
not just with guns and bombs,
but with words, with campaigns
like the amazing work that
this group is doing.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
new film is "City of Ghosts."
Matthew Heineman and
Abdul-Aziz al-Hamza,
thank you both very much.
MATTHEW HEINEMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a
news update before we go.
The Israeli government says that
it will remove metal detectors
from a holy site in Jerusalem
that have caused
anger among Muslims.
It's part of a
compromise to defuse the
security crisis there.
On the "NewsHour" online: One
health care frustration many
Americans share is the lack
of transparency when it
comes to the costs of
medical tests and treatments.
One woman shares her odyssey of
trying to track down answers.
Plus, we get two reactions
from health care experts.
All that and more is on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that is the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again
here tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank you,
and we will see you soon.